TESTING.md, before:

This document describes the testing procedures for the [Dinner Party app](README.md).

## User story testing

## Code validation

### Naming conventions used

- all class names are in `CamelCase`.
- all constant names are in `ALL_CAPS`.
- all variable names are in `snake_case`.
- following my mentor's suggestion, I changed the names of global variables (that are not constants) so that they always start with an underscore: `_global_variable`.

### PEP8 validation

All 4 Python files written for this project were tested with the build-in PyCharm linter and the [Code Institute PEP8 Linter](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/#) thoughout development.

In the current version, no errors were found.

#### `run.py` validation

![`run.py` validated with the CI PEP8 linter](testing/pep8-validation/pep8-run.png)

#### `planning.py` validation

![`planning.py` validated with the CI PEP8 linter](testing/pep8-validation/pep8-planning.png)

#### `utilities.py` validation

![`utilities.py` validated with the CI PEP8 linter](testing/pep8-validation/pep8-utilities.png)

#### `gsheet.py` validation

![`gsheet.py` validated with the CI PEP8 linter](testing/pep8-validation/pep8-gsheet.png)


### HTML/CSS validation

As I decided to add some CSS styling to the HTML style provided in the project template, I also validated this with the [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fdinner-party-planner-ee795b43bd35.herokuapp.com%2F). In the current version, no errors or warnings were found (see [this section of the README](README.md/#rerolled-design-elements) for more details).

![The deployed site passes HTML validation](assets/readme-pics/html-validation-deployed.png)


## Feature testing




## User input validation

### Y/N questions

3 such questions occur in the program flow:

- [Initial question](#initial-question)
- [Add more dishes question](#add-more-dishes-question)
- [Check pantry question](#check-pantr-question)

#### Initial question


`Would you like to plan a dinner party? (Y/N):`

#### Single-step test cases


|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:	|
|other letter character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple letter characters|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|special character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple special characters	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|space	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple spaces	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|empty string	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|number character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple number characters	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|`Y` or `y`			|Here is the list of dishes you can choose from.|✅|
|`N` or `n`			|Maybe some other time, then.|✅|



#### Double-step test cases


|Shorthand	| Stands for|
|---			|---		|
|`Y`			|	`Y` or `y`	|
|`N`			|	`N` or `n`	|
|`X`			| Any other character(s)|



|Input				|Expected answer	|Result|
|---				|---				|:---:	|
|`X` then `X`		|I did not understand[...] x2|✅|
|`X` then `Y`		|I did not understand[...] Here is the list of dishes[...]|✅|
|`X` then `N`		|I did not understand[...] Maybe some other time, then.|✅|
|`Y` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|

![User input validation for the initial question](testing/manual-testing/1-would-you-like-to-plan.png)


#### Add more dishes question


`Would you like to add another dish? (Y/N):`

#### Single-step test cases


|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:	|
|other letter character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple letter characters	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|special character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple special characters|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|space	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple spaces	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|empty string	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|number character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple number characters|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|`Y` or `y`			|Cool, here is the list of dishes again:|✅|
|`N` or `n`			|Got it! That's all for now, then.|✅|



#### Double-step test cases


|Shorthand	| Stands for|
|---			|---		|
|`Y`			|	`Y` or `y`	|
|`N`			|	`N` or `n`	|
|`X`			| Any other character(s)|



|Input				|Expected answer	|Result|
|---				|---				|:---:	|
|`X` then `X`		|I did not understand[...] x2|✅|
|`X` then `Y`		|I did not understand[...] Cool, here is the list of dishes again:|✅|
|`X` then `N`		|I did not understand[...] Got it! That's all for now, then.|✅|
|`Y` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|

![User input validation for the question "Would you like to add another dish?"](testing/manual-testing/2-would-you-like-to-add-another.png)


#### Check pantry question


`Would you like to check your pantry for ingredients (Y/N):`

#### Single-step test cases


|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:	|
|other letter character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple letter characters	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|special character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple special characters|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|space	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple spaces	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|empty string	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|number character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple number characters|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|`Y` or `y`			|Let's check your pantry, then!|✅|
|`N` or `n`			|Got it! That's all for now, then.|✅|

#### Double-step test cases


|Shorthand	| Stands for|
|---			|---		|
|`Y`			|	`Y` or `y`	|
|`N`			|	`N` or `n`	|
|`X`			| Any other character(s)|



|Input				|Expected answer	|Result|
|---				|---				|:---:	|
|`X` then `X`		|I did not understand[...] x2|✅|
|`X` then `Y`		|I did not understand[...] Let's check your pantry, then!|✅|
|`X` then `N`		|I did not understand[...] Got it! That's all for now, then.|✅|
|`Y` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|

![User input validation for "Would you like to check your pantry for ingredients?"](testing/manual-testing/3-would-you-like-to-check-your-pantry.png)


### Number from a range

#### Integer from a range (bounded)

`Type in the number of the dish you'd like to add:`

This input method accepts integers between 1 and the length of the list of dishes (this changes dynamically from 14 to 1). Both the lower and the upper bound is accepted.

##### Single-step test cases


|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:	|
|letter character	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|multiple letter characters|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|special character	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
| multiple special characters	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|space	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
| multiple spaces	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|empty string	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|non-integer number	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|integer outside the range	|Number`<input>` out of range. Please type a number between 1 and `<range>`:|✅|
|integer from the specified range	|You have selected: `<dish>`|✅|

##### Double-step test cases

|Shorthand	| Stands for|
|---			|---		|
|`INT`✅	|integer from the range	|
|`INT`❌	|integer from outside the range|
|`X`			| Any other character(s)|



|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:
|`X` then `X`				|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] x2|✅|
|`X` then `INT`❌		|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] Number`<input>` out of range[...]|✅|
|`X` then `INT`✅		|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] You have selected[...]|✅|
|`INT`❌ then `INT`❌	|Number`<input>` out of range[...] x2 |✅|
|`INT`❌ then `X`		|Number`<input>` out of range[...] `<input>` is not a valid number[...] |✅|
|`INT`❌ then `INT`✅		|Number`<input>` out of range[...]  You have selected[...]|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `INT`✅		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `INT`❌		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|

![User input validation for dish selection (integer in range)](testing/manual-testing/4-type-the-number-of-the-dish-1.png)

![User input validation for dish selection (integer in range)](testing/manual-testing/4-type-the-number-of-the-dish-2.png)



#### Float from a range

`How many <units> of <ingredient> do you have?`

This input method accepts floats that are positive, including 0.


##### Single-step test cases

|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:|
|letter character	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a number that is 0 or above.|✅|
|multiple letter characters|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|special character	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
| multiple special characters	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|space	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
| multiple spaces	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|empty string	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|non-positive number	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|float from the specified range| Got it, you have `<input>` `<units>` of `<ingredient>`|✅|
|integer from the specified range| Got it, you have `<input>` `<units>` of `<ingredient>`|✅|


##### Double-step test cases

|Shorthand	| Stands for|
|---			|---		|
|`INT`✅	|integer from the range	|
|`INT`❌	|integer from outside the range|
|`X`			| Any other character(s)|


|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:
|`X` then `X`				|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] x2|✅|
|`X` then `INT`❌		|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] Number`<input>` out of range[...]|✅|
|`X` then `INT`✅		|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] Got it, you have[...]|✅|
|`INT`❌ then `INT`❌	|Number`<input>` out of range[...] x2 |✅|
|`INT`❌ then `X`		|Number`<input>` out of range[...] `<input>` is not a valid number[...] |✅|
|`INT`❌ then `INT`✅		|Number`<input>` out of range[...]  Got it, you have[...]|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `INT`✅		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `INT`❌		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|

![User input validation for pantry check (float in range)](testing/manual-testing/5-how-many-do-you-have-1.png)

![User input validation for pantry check (float in range)](testing/manual-testing/5-how-many-do-you-have-3.png)


## Flow testing

The summarised program flow is repeated here for convenience:

- if the user answers `Y` to the initial question: start planning loop
- if the user answers `N` to the 1st question: end with message
- when the user selects a dish:
	- remove it from the list of dishes
	- display its name and ingredients
	- add its ingredients to the shopping list
- if the shopping list already contains an ingredient that is added: combine two items into one, sum the ingredient quantity
- if the user wants to continue adding an ingredient: rerun planning loop
- if the user does not want to  add more ingredients: 
	- end planning loop
	- ask if they want to check their pantry
- if the user selects all dishes: 
	- end planning loop
	- ask if they want to check their pantry
- if the user does not want to check the pantry:
	- print shopping list, end program
- if the user wants to check the pantry
	- ask how much of each shopping list ingredient they have
	- subtract answer from quantity on shopping list
		- if resulting quantity is 0 or less, remove item from the list
- if there are shopping list items left, print shopping list
- end program with message

All events in the flow work as excpected.

On the flowchart below, I marked the crucial places in the flow that have beed manually tested. The table below  the flowchart summarizes the event and the behaviour that is expected to follow it, along with the test results.

All events in the flow work as excpected.

![Flow testing chart](assets/readme-pics/testing-flow-dinner-party.jpg)

|Nr		|Event|Excpected behaviour	|Result|
|---:	|---|	---					|:---:|	
|1		|Input not valid| Error message, new input|✅|
|2		|Input valid| Proceed|✅|
|3		|Input `N`| End program with message|✅|
|4		|Input `Y`| Display dishes, start planning loop|✅|
|5		|Input `N`ot valid| Error message, new input|✅|
|6		|Input valid| Confirm selection|✅|
|7		|Input valid| Add ingredients to shopping list|✅|
|8		|Ingredients added to shopping list| Unify quantities in shopping list|✅|
|9		|No dishes left	|Ask to check pantry|✅|
|10		|Input `N`ot valid| Error message, new input|✅|
|11		|Input valid| Proceed|✅|
|12		|Input `Y`| Display dishes, repeat planning loop|✅|
|13		|Input `N`| Ask to check pantry |✅|
|14		|Input `N`ot valid| Error message, new input|✅|
|15		|Input valid| Proceed|✅|
|16		|Input `N`| Print shopping list, End program with message|✅|
|17		|Input `Y`| Start pantry loop, ask quantity of ingredient|✅|
|18		|Input not valid| Error message, new input|✅|
|19		|Input valid| Comfirm message, subtract `number` from shopping list|✅|
|20		|`number < 0`| remove item from shopping list|✅|
|21		|There are more quantities to check| repeat pantry loop|✅|
|22		|There are no more quantities to check| proceed|✅|
|23		|There are items left on shopping list| Print shopping list, End program with message|✅|
|24		|There are no items left on shopping list| End program with message|✅|



### Database data validation

The database in Google Sheets was manually checked for the following:

|Check											|Result|
|---											|:---:|
| dishes are in the 2nd row|✅|
| ingredients are in the 1st column|✅|
| capitalization (none)|✅|
| spelling|✅|
| quantity cells only contain floats|✅|
| each ingredient cell contains `(` and `)`|✅|

#### Devices & browsers

##### Devices

The website was tested on the following devices:

 - Macbook Air M2, Mac OS Sonoma 14.3.1 
 - Macbook Air M1, Mac OS Sonoma 14.3.1

 ##### Browsers

The site was tested on the following browsers:

- Google Chrome
- Microsoft Edge 

## Bugs

All bugs are tracked in [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/blahosyl/dinner-party/issues).

#### Known bugs

There are no known bugs in the project.

#### Solved bugs

Solved bugs are listed in [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/blahosyl/dinner-party/issues?q=is%3Aissue+label%3Abug).

Commit message:

update user stories, add to TESTING #4

TESTING.md, after:

This document describes the testing procedures for the [Dinner Party app](README.md).

## User story testing

The user stories from [README.md](README.md) are repeated here for convenience.

### User goals

The same set of goals was determined for all users of the app regardless of whether they are first-time or returning users.

- [UX1] I want to have a user-friendly and easy to use shopping list generator.
- [UX2] I want to see what recipes are available at each stage of planning
- [UX3] I want to choose one or more recipes to shop for
- [UX4] I want to see the ingredients for the dish I selected
- [UX5] I want to get a shopping list of all ingredients correctly added
- [UX6] I want to adjust the shopping list based on the ingredients I already have
- [UX7] I want clear instructions on the next step at each stage of the process
- [UX8] I want to only see relevant information on the screen at each step of the process
- [UX9] I want to be able to visually distinguish diffeerent kinds of information on the screen
- [UX10] I want to know the result of each step/choice in the process

### Creator goals

- [CR1] I want to create my first Python application
- [CR2] I want to create an application that fills a real-life need
- [CR3] I want to make use of Object Oriented Programming
- [CR4] I want to reduce code redundancy as much as possible
- [CR5] I want the app to handle all possible user input
- [CR5] I want pre-empt unexpected user input that the application cannot handle
- [CR6] I want the user to always be sure how to interact with the program
- [CR7] I want the app to be as visually appealing as possible under the given constraints of the template
- [CR8] I want to write code with future extendability and scalability in mind

## Code validation

### Naming conventions used

- all class names are in `CamelCase`.
- all constant names are in `ALL_CAPS`.
- all variable names are in `snake_case`.
- following my mentor's suggestion, I changed the names of global variables (that are not constants) so that they always start with an underscore: `_global_variable`.

### PEP8 validation

All 4 Python files written for this project were tested with the build-in PyCharm linter and the [Code Institute PEP8 Linter](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/#) thoughout development.

In the current version, no errors were found.

#### `run.py` validation

![`run.py` validated with the CI PEP8 linter](testing/pep8-validation/pep8-run.png)

#### `planning.py` validation

![`planning.py` validated with the CI PEP8 linter](testing/pep8-validation/pep8-planning.png)

#### `utilities.py` validation

![`utilities.py` validated with the CI PEP8 linter](testing/pep8-validation/pep8-utilities.png)

#### `gsheet.py` validation

![`gsheet.py` validated with the CI PEP8 linter](testing/pep8-validation/pep8-gsheet.png)


### HTML/CSS validation

As I decided to add some CSS styling to the HTML style provided in the project template, I also validated this with the [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fdinner-party-planner-ee795b43bd35.herokuapp.com%2F). In the current version, no errors or warnings were found (see [this section of the README](README.md/#rerolled-design-elements) for more details).

![The deployed site passes HTML validation](assets/readme-pics/html-validation-deployed.png)


## Feature testing




## User input validation

### Y/N questions

3 such questions occur in the program flow:

- [Initial question](#initial-question)
- [Add more dishes question](#add-more-dishes-question)
- [Check pantry question](#check-pantr-question)

#### Initial question


`Would you like to plan a dinner party? (Y/N):`

#### Single-step test cases


|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:	|
|other letter character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple letter characters|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|special character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple special characters	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|space	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple spaces	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|empty string	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|number character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple number characters	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|`Y` or `y`			|Here is the list of dishes you can choose from.|✅|
|`N` or `n`			|Maybe some other time, then.|✅|



#### Double-step test cases


|Shorthand	| Stands for|
|---			|---		|
|`Y`			|	`Y` or `y`	|
|`N`			|	`N` or `n`	|
|`X`			| Any other character(s)|



|Input				|Expected answer	|Result|
|---				|---				|:---:	|
|`X` then `X`		|I did not understand[...] x2|✅|
|`X` then `Y`		|I did not understand[...] Here is the list of dishes[...]|✅|
|`X` then `N`		|I did not understand[...] Maybe some other time, then.|✅|
|`Y` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|

![User input validation for the initial question](testing/manual-testing/1-would-you-like-to-plan.png)


#### Add more dishes question


`Would you like to add another dish? (Y/N):`

#### Single-step test cases


|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:	|
|other letter character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple letter characters	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|special character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple special characters|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|space	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple spaces	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|empty string	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|number character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple number characters|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|`Y` or `y`			|Cool, here is the list of dishes again:|✅|
|`N` or `n`			|Got it! That's all for now, then.|✅|



#### Double-step test cases


|Shorthand	| Stands for|
|---			|---		|
|`Y`			|	`Y` or `y`	|
|`N`			|	`N` or `n`	|
|`X`			| Any other character(s)|



|Input				|Expected answer	|Result|
|---				|---				|:---:	|
|`X` then `X`		|I did not understand[...] x2|✅|
|`X` then `Y`		|I did not understand[...] Cool, here is the list of dishes again:|✅|
|`X` then `N`		|I did not understand[...] Got it! That's all for now, then.|✅|
|`Y` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|

![User input validation for the question "Would you like to add another dish?"](testing/manual-testing/2-would-you-like-to-add-another.png)


#### Check pantry question


`Would you like to check your pantry for ingredients (Y/N):`

#### Single-step test cases


|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:	|
|other letter character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple letter characters	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|special character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple special characters|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|space	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple spaces	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|empty string	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|number character	|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|multiple number characters|I did not understand. Please type Y or N:|✅|
|`Y` or `y`			|Let's check your pantry, then!|✅|
|`N` or `n`			|Got it! That's all for now, then.|✅|

#### Double-step test cases


|Shorthand	| Stands for|
|---			|---		|
|`Y`			|	`Y` or `y`	|
|`N`			|	`N` or `n`	|
|`X`			| Any other character(s)|



|Input				|Expected answer	|Result|
|---				|---				|:---:	|
|`X` then `X`		|I did not understand[...] x2|✅|
|`X` then `Y`		|I did not understand[...] Let's check your pantry, then!|✅|
|`X` then `N`		|I did not understand[...] Got it! That's all for now, then.|✅|
|`Y` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`Y` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `N`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`N` then `Y`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|

![User input validation for "Would you like to check your pantry for ingredients?"](testing/manual-testing/3-would-you-like-to-check-your-pantry.png)


### Number from a range

#### Integer from a range (bounded)

`Type in the number of the dish you'd like to add:`

This input method accepts integers between 1 and the length of the list of dishes (this changes dynamically from 14 to 1). Both the lower and the upper bound is accepted.

##### Single-step test cases


|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:	|
|letter character	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|multiple letter characters|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|special character	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
| multiple special characters	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|space	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
| multiple spaces	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|empty string	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|non-integer number	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|integer outside the range	|Number`<input>` out of range. Please type a number between 1 and `<range>`:|✅|
|integer from the specified range	|You have selected: `<dish>`|✅|

##### Double-step test cases

|Shorthand	| Stands for|
|---			|---		|
|`INT`✅	|integer from the range	|
|`INT`❌	|integer from outside the range|
|`X`			| Any other character(s)|



|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:
|`X` then `X`				|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] x2|✅|
|`X` then `INT`❌		|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] Number`<input>` out of range[...]|✅|
|`X` then `INT`✅		|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] You have selected[...]|✅|
|`INT`❌ then `INT`❌	|Number`<input>` out of range[...] x2 |✅|
|`INT`❌ then `X`		|Number`<input>` out of range[...] `<input>` is not a valid number[...] |✅|
|`INT`❌ then `INT`✅		|Number`<input>` out of range[...]  You have selected[...]|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `INT`✅		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `INT`❌		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|

![User input validation for dish selection (integer in range)](testing/manual-testing/4-type-the-number-of-the-dish-1.png)

![User input validation for dish selection (integer in range)](testing/manual-testing/4-type-the-number-of-the-dish-2.png)



#### Float from a range

`How many <units> of <ingredient> do you have?`

This input method accepts floats that are positive, including 0.


##### Single-step test cases

|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:|
|letter character	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a number that is 0 or above.|✅|
|multiple letter characters|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|special character	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
| multiple special characters	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|space	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
| multiple spaces	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|empty string	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|non-positive number	|`<input>` is not a valid number. Please type a whole number between 1 and `<range>`.|✅|
|float from the specified range| Got it, you have `<input>` `<units>` of `<ingredient>`|✅|
|integer from the specified range| Got it, you have `<input>` `<units>` of `<ingredient>`|✅|


##### Double-step test cases

|Shorthand	| Stands for|
|---			|---		|
|`INT`✅	|integer from the range	|
|`INT`❌	|integer from outside the range|
|`X`			| Any other character(s)|


|Input						|Expected answer	|Result|
|---						|---				|:---:
|`X` then `X`				|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] x2|✅|
|`X` then `INT`❌		|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] Number`<input>` out of range[...]|✅|
|`X` then `INT`✅		|`<input>` is not a valid number[...] Got it, you have[...]|✅|
|`INT`❌ then `INT`❌	|Number`<input>` out of range[...] x2 |✅|
|`INT`❌ then `X`		|Number`<input>` out of range[...] `<input>` is not a valid number[...] |✅|
|`INT`❌ then `INT`✅		|Number`<input>` out of range[...]  Got it, you have[...]|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `INT`✅		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `X`		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|
|`INT`✅ then `INT`❌		|*not possible, program continues after 1st input*|✅|

![User input validation for pantry check (float in range)](testing/manual-testing/5-how-many-do-you-have-1.png)

![User input validation for pantry check (float in range)](testing/manual-testing/5-how-many-do-you-have-3.png)


## Flow testing

The summarised program flow is repeated here for convenience:

- if the user answers `Y` to the initial question: start planning loop
- if the user answers `N` to the 1st question: end with message
- when the user selects a dish:
	- remove it from the list of dishes
	- display its name and ingredients
	- add its ingredients to the shopping list
- if the shopping list already contains an ingredient that is added: combine two items into one, sum the ingredient quantity
- if the user wants to continue adding an ingredient: rerun planning loop
- if the user does not want to  add more ingredients: 
	- end planning loop
	- ask if they want to check their pantry
- if the user selects all dishes: 
	- end planning loop
	- ask if they want to check their pantry
- if the user does not want to check the pantry:
	- print shopping list, end program
- if the user wants to check the pantry
	- ask how much of each shopping list ingredient they have
	- subtract answer from quantity on shopping list
		- if resulting quantity is 0 or less, remove item from the list
- if there are shopping list items left, print shopping list
- end program with message

All events in the flow work as excpected.

On the flowchart below, I marked the crucial places in the flow that have beed manually tested. The table below  the flowchart summarizes the event and the behaviour that is expected to follow it, along with the test results.

All events in the flow work as excpected.

![Flow testing chart](assets/readme-pics/testing-flow-dinner-party.jpg)

|Nr		|Event|Excpected behaviour	|Result|
|---:	|---|	---					|:---:|	
|1		|Input not valid| Error message, new input|✅|
|2		|Input valid| Proceed|✅|
|3		|Input `N`| End program with message|✅|
|4		|Input `Y`| Display dishes, start planning loop|✅|
|5		|Input `N`ot valid| Error message, new input|✅|
|6		|Input valid| Confirm selection|✅|
|7		|Input valid| Add ingredients to shopping list|✅|
|8		|Ingredients added to shopping list| Unify quantities in shopping list|✅|
|9		|No dishes left	|Ask to check pantry|✅|
|10		|Input `N`ot valid| Error message, new input|✅|
|11		|Input valid| Proceed|✅|
|12		|Input `Y`| Display dishes, repeat planning loop|✅|
|13		|Input `N`| Ask to check pantry |✅|
|14		|Input `N`ot valid| Error message, new input|✅|
|15		|Input valid| Proceed|✅|
|16		|Input `N`| Print shopping list, End program with message|✅|
|17		|Input `Y`| Start pantry loop, ask quantity of ingredient|✅|
|18		|Input not valid| Error message, new input|✅|
|19		|Input valid| Comfirm message, subtract `number` from shopping list|✅|
|20		|`number < 0`| remove item from shopping list|✅|
|21		|There are more quantities to check| repeat pantry loop|✅|
|22		|There are no more quantities to check| proceed|✅|
|23		|There are items left on shopping list| Print shopping list, End program with message|✅|
|24		|There are no items left on shopping list| End program with message|✅|



### Database data validation

The database in Google Sheets was manually checked for the following:

|Check											|Result|
|---											|:---:|
| dishes are in the 2nd row|✅|
| ingredients are in the 1st column|✅|
| capitalization (none)|✅|
| spelling|✅|
| quantity cells only contain floats|✅|
| each ingredient cell contains `(` and `)`|✅|

#### Devices & browsers

##### Devices

The website was tested on the following devices:

 - Macbook Air M2, Mac OS Sonoma 14.3.1 
 - Macbook Air M1, Mac OS Sonoma 14.3.1

 ##### Browsers

The site was tested on the following browsers:

- Google Chrome
- Microsoft Edge 

## Bugs

All bugs are tracked in [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/blahosyl/dinner-party/issues).

#### Known bugs

There are no known bugs in the project.

#### Solved bugs

Solved bugs are listed in [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/blahosyl/dinner-party/issues?q=is%3Aissue+label%3Abug).
